### 2.1. Project Relevance

This section is dedicated to the relevance of the project. The relevance of the project is determined by the current state of the EdTech market and the necessity of the new educational technologies.

To begin with, the EdTech sphere was not so popular at least 10 years ago. The only way of using electronics for education was e-books and textbooks for university. Even these features of the nascent EdTech were not generally accepted in all the educational establishments.

Actually, numerous of research advocates that the amount of e-learning applied for educational purposes started to increase rapidly only just since the COVID-19 pandemic (Xue & Crompton, 2024). Likewise, the number of corresponding EdTech companies started to grow. That happen due to the leak of personal communications and safety precautions during the lockdown phase. The education could not be stopped for such a long time, thus the alternatives had to appear soon. The same conclusion appeared in the ‘Research Trend on Educational Technology Issue: Post Pandemic Instructional Preference on Digital Utilization’ with ever higher scale of influence on many spheres of modern society (Susilana, 2023).

Nowadays the EdTech platforms are widely used in different spheres and in numerous purposes. Current trends on short articles, videos, and podcasts suggest that the bite size learning approach is becoming more and more popular. The Publear platform uses the fine fragmentation of the educational content to make the learning process more effective and less time-consuming. The Publear platform is designed to be a part of the EdTech market and to be a part of the future of the educational technologies.
