### 2.3. Project Description

Publear is an educational platform designed with an innovative learning approach in mind. To describe the key features of the platform, it is vital to give the detailed explanation of the learning process and the course creation phase.

In terms of the platform interaction, all of the users are divided into 2 groups - learners and course creators. The goal is to offer the best experience for both of the groups. The learners are provided with the easy way of finding the most relevant content and the ability to learn at their own pace. The course creators are provided with the easy way of creating the content and the ability to track the progress of the students.

The mobile application is much more useful for content consumption, rather than the content creation. Hence the main focus of application is the best experience for the learners. For the course creators, the web application will be designed in the separate stream, but the mobile app also provides all the necessary tools for the course creation - tutorials, step-by-step guides and the ability to upload the course.

In terms of learning approach, the platform is designed with the following key features:

1. Bite size learning. The ability to provide content split into the smallest parts - stories and topics. This allows the students to learn at their own pace and to track the progress.
    The key feature of the content on the platform is splitting the whole course into smaller parts - stories. Each story completely covers the specific part of the course. And stories are divided into the topics - even smaller parts. Topics are designed to provide the detailed and deep explanation of the specific part of the story. Such approach allows the students to stop at any moment and continue from where they leave. The platform also provides the ability to track the progress and to see the statistics of the learning process.
2. Gamification. Every course is prepared as a game with the levels, achievements, practices in gamified manner and rewards. Such approach makes the learning process more engaging and fun, which helps to increase user retention.
    The gamification on the platform is achieved via multiple features. The UI design of the whole app, achievements and rewards mechanisms to enforce the learning process and engagement, progress and statistics tracking to provide the user with the feedback and encourage them to continue learning.
3. Personalization. The platform suggests users the courses based on their interests and previous experience. This allows to provide the most relevant content to the user.
    This feature is not directly implemented in the mobile app, but on the backend side. However the application emphasizes the suggested items for the user.

Speaking about the course creation phase, the platform provides the step-by-step plan to enroll the course.

1. The course creation tutorial course on the platform.
    Every user will find the official Publear course on the platform, which will guide them through the whole process of creating the course. The course is designed to describe all the critical steps to accomplish the course creation.

2. The course creation tool.
    Publear works with Notion. The course creators will be provided with the Notion template, which consists of the required blocks to create the course.
3. After the course is finished, it could be uploaded via a single link right from the mobile app.
