### 3.1. Project development flow

#### 3.1.1. Overview

#### 3.1.2. Project Management  [ML] I'm not even sure this section is necessary, as it contains obvoius things applicable to each and every Agile-based project in any company.

The undeniable truth is that the project development is unfeasible without a proper management. Especially, if the project team is scanty to have a dedicated project manager, but large enough for uncertainties and misunderstandings to occur during the development and planning.

The management process is undoubtedly the key feature of the Publear products. [ML I didn't understand this phrase, process can't be key feature it is a tool aimed to achieve something] That is why considerable effort was put into the management and planning process.

Speaking in retrospect, the decision to use the Agile methodology was great. That helped the team to be adaptive and at the same time to have a clear vision of plans and goals. Using the tasks board, statuses, sprints and planning meetings facilitated the faster development. Moreover, that helped to change the plan in cases when is was obvious that the initial goal was unattainable in time.

Springs were planned for two weeks. This period was chosen because of its optimal duration to have enough time to complete several time consuming tasks and implement product features, but on the other hand to be short enough to have a clear vision of the current progress to have an opportunity to change the plan if necessary.

All the tasks for the forthcoming sprint were planned according to the priorities and approximate team capacity. The tasks were divided into the projects, each responsible for the big app feature or the development direction, thus the progress was comprehensible and the feature delivery time became more predictable.

More on the projects will be described in the next sections.

Each task workflow consisted of the following two stages with the corresponding statuses:

1. Planning - the task is planned to be done, requirements are gathered and the task is estimated. On this step the greatest attention is paid to the task description and the requirements for the final result. Also, on this stage some research may be performed to elaborate the development plan. The task is estimated in story points and the priority is set according to the project needs.

    In this stage the task is in the `Not started` status. After creation it is stored in the backlog.

2. Development - the most time consuming stage. It consists of the development, testing and code and design review. The task travels through these statuses (`In progress`, `Reopened`, `Review`) until the required result is achieved and the task is merged - the `Done` status.

After the sprint ends, the unfinished tasks are moved to the next sprint or to the backlog if the task is not so important to be done in the nearest future due to new priorities. After that, the average capacity of the team is recalculated and the new sprint is planned, considering new priorities, projects and team capacity.

#### 3.1.3. Mobile Application
#### 3.1.4. API and Backend
#### 3.1.5. Design and Components
