## 3.2 Mobile Application development

#### 3.2.1. Overview

This section describes the process of the mobile application development.

The application is written in pure Swift programming language and uses essentially SwiftUI framework for the UI part of the application. The application is designed to support iOS and iPadOS platforms. To use the latest features of the frameworks available and also new language features, the deployment target of the application is set to iOS 16.0 and iPadOS 16.0.

#### 3.2.2. Architecture

The application architecture could be considered from the point of view of the UI part of the app and from the global architecture of the entire project perspective.

##### UI Architecture

Since the application is written in SwiftUI, it mainly uses MVVM architecture design patters for the UI part of the application. For the data layer the application uses a combination of MVVM and VIPER architecture design patterns.

Main components of the UI architecture are `CommonView` and `GenericViewModel` - these components are used to create reusable UI components and view models. `CommonView` is basically just a SwiftUI View wrapper with associated view model type. `GenericViewModel` is a generic class that conforms to `ObservableObject` protocol and has it's own `CommonView` type. `GenericViewModel` is used to create reusable view models that can be used in different views. Since SwiftUI's paradigm is based on the idea of reusability and fast View struct rendering, the application uses this approach to create reusable UI components via storing logics and data in view models.

Moreover, `CommonViewModel` - super class of the `GenericViewModel` implements core features that provides consistent ways to update the view via setting up observable properties and calling `objectWillChange.send()` method. This method is used to notify SwiftUI that the view should be updated.

This mechanism become a common practice across the whole application due to it's performance and simplicity. During the research of the SwiftUI architecture design patterns I did not find anything similar to this approach, so I decided to design it from scratch and add all the necessary features that would be useful for the application.

##### Global Architecture

The global architecture of the application is based on the idea of separating the application into different modules. Each module is a separate Xcode project that contains all the necessary files to run the application. The main module is the `Publear` module that as little code and logics as possible - basically it is only the application lifecycle and the main view of the application. The whole application setup and configuration is done in the `PublearApp` module which is the main module of the application. This module is responsible for the application lifecycle, navigation and dependencies injection.

The modules are separated into two main groups: Core and Feature modules. Core modules, in turn, are divided into 3 subgroups: Core functionality (`DevTools` and `CommonTypes`), Common components (`CommonUtils` and `CommonUI`) and Core features, such as `Navigation`, `Settings`, `Localizer` and `Network`. From the point of feature modules, each product feature or large feature part is departed to the its own module. Most of the product features take even a pair of modules, e.g. `Account` and `AccountUI`, to separate the UI and data layers and to make the UI and business logic components independent from each other.

In terms of the dependency injection (hereinafter DI) the project was started with the idea of using protocols injection. However, after some time I decided to use the DI framework `needle`. This framework was chosen mainly because of two reasons: it provides compile-time safety and it is one of the fastest DI frameworks based on code generation in terms of performance and build time.

To enhance the work with this framework even further I created a set of extension and helper methods that simplify the work with the framework, e.g. for creating a shared dependency inside the component.

The components approach is used to separate the application into separate components that are responsible for the specific feature. For example, the `AuthComponent` is responsible for the authentication and authorization of the user. Such differentiation allows to setup and control the objects creation and dependencies as accurately as possible. That increases the performance of the application and reduces RAM usage by removing unused objects.

To illustrate the global modules architecture, the following diagram was created:

[ ] TODO: add diagram

#### 3.2.3. Frameworks and Libraries

The Publear project was started with the idea of using as little third-party frameworks and libraries as possible to achieve these 3 primary goals: to use the most suitable patterns and approaches for the application's purposes, to enhance the iOS development skill in general and to have as much control over the application as possible due to the absence of many third-party dependencies.

However, some widely used and time-tested frameworks that the industry trusts were used in the project. The great example of such frameworks is `RxSwift` and `RxCocoa` frameworks that are used to bring the reactive programming paradigm to the project.

Besides the `RxSwift` framework, the `Needle` framework was used to implement the dependency injection mechanism in the project. And some other small frameworks were used to fasten the development process, such as `Smile` to work with the emojis and `MathJaxSwift` to render the math formulas.

Speaking about local dependencies, the modules approach was used to separate the application into different modules as it was described in the previous section. This approach not only allows to separate the code base into logical units with fixes dependencies, but also provides the ability to reuse the code across the different projects, for example to reuse UI components from the `CommonUI` in future products of the ecosystem.

The other important feature of separated modules is the ability to develop them independently from each other. That allows to publish some of the core-features modules as open-source libraries.

The app dependencies are managed by the Swift Package Manager (hereinafter SPM). This tool was chosen because of its simplicity and integration with the Xcode. The SPM is used to manage both local and remote dependencies. Moreover, according the the benchmarks, the SPM is the fastest dependency manager in terms of performance and build time, since it is a new Apple's standard for managing dependencies. In addition, some of the new third-party libraries are available only via SPM, such as `MathJaxSwift` and `Nuke` (the last one is used to work with the images in the courses content).

#### 3.2.4. Performance and Optimization

The app's primary goal is to provide the best user experience possible. That is why the performance and smoothness of the interface are the key factors to focus on during the development.

The application is optimized on a several levels - the UI, data and network layers.

To optimize the UI layer the app uses the following techniques:

1. Lazy UI constructions, such as `LazyVStack` are used to render the large amount of data in the lists. This approach allows to render only the visible part of the list and to render the other parts only when the user scrolls the list. This approach is used in the `ForYouTabView` view to render the list of the courses cards and other elements.
2. Loading states, indicating that the data is loading, are used to show the user that the process takes time, but the app is responding and is functioning properly.
3. The models-based views allows to control the re-rendering of the views to diminish the amount of the unnecessary re-rendering. This is the fundamental idea of the `CommonView` and `CommonViewModel` usage in the established MVVM architecture.

The data layer is optimized by using the reactive programming paradigm (primarily with `RxSwift`) to precisely control the operations order and reduce the amount unneeded work.

Moreover, one of the most vital features for the performance boost is the concurrency in every time-consuming operation. Heavy processes like image rendering from raw data, progress computation or suggestions generation algorithms are executed in the background threads to not block the main thread and to not freeze the UI and perform actions with higher priorities without delays.

The concurrency is achieved by using Task API and async/await functionality.

Despite the fact that concurrency speeds up the app operation, it is necessary to pay great attention to the architecture in order to avoid asynchronous programming common problems, such as data races.

The efficiency of the network layer is achieved mainly by data caching and prefetching. The data caching is used to store the data locally and to use it when the user is offline or to skip the network request if it is possible to reuse the previously obtained data. Prefetching is used to load the data in advance to reduce the loading time and to provide the user with the data as fast as possible. Such technique may be used for performing the requests that presumably will be performed in the future, e.g. when the user opens the course, the app may prefetch the course content and store it locally to provide the user with the content instantly as soon as they open the inner page.

The network requests are undoubtedly the most time-consuming operations in the application. That is the ground to use these kinds of optimization tricks.

#### 3.2.5. Design and Components

As it was mentioned in the project development flow section, the project's product features are design based. The design system in code is used to create the reusable UI components and to provide the consistent look and feel across the whole application. The system updates are handles manually by the developer afther the corresponding changes happen to the Figma design system and the task is assigned.

The design system approach helps to achieve consistency in the application's appearance and to reduce the amount of the code duplication. To bring it even further, the components generally are designed to be flexible and configurable. The great example of common UI components are presented in the `CommonUI` module. The most prominent representative is `ButtonView` - a button that has a numerous ways of customization, such as the button's style, color scheme, size, loading state and text. This button covers the majority of the development use-cases, hence it might be used across the whole application.

An important caveat is to remember about about YAGNI and DRY principles and to not over-engineer the components. The components should be designed to be as flexible as possible, but not to be too complex and to cover all the possible use-cases. Firstly, it is necessary to understand the real use-cases and separate them from the hypothetical ones that might appear in the future. Secondly, sometimes that is better to devise a local component that is designed for the specific use-case, rather than to make the global component too complex and hard to maintain. The balance between the flexibility and simplicity is the key to the successful design system.

#### 3.2.6. Testing and A/B Testing

The application's stability and reliability are the key factors to focus on during the development and maintenance phases.

Publear app has two great systems to ensure the application acts the best for the user: the test application and the A/B testing system.

Test app is a commonly used approach to ensure the application's changes keep the key features working as expected. Other than that, the test app is used to test the new features as easy as possible. That is much faster to create a standalone test view with the necessary data and to test the feature in the isolated environment, rather than to integrate it to the large existing project and perform invasive architecture changes.

The great part of test app is that it reuses the main application's code base, so the test app is always up-to-date with the main application's features and changes. This peculiarity allows to ensure the correctness of the new features integrations via testing the test app but not the whole Publear project. This also saves much time during the CI phase, since the test app is much smaller and faster to build and test.

Another great development feature is mainly applied to the application's UX and UI changes. The A/B testing system is used to test the new UI and UX changes on the real users. The system is designed to provide the different UI and UX versions to the different users and to collect the feedback and the statistics about the user's behavior and preferences via logging and metrics.

Such mechanism is implemented in Publear application - `Experiments`. The `Experiments` is a separate module that is responsible for the A/B testing. Application supports three types of experiments, split into categories depending on the value type - boolean, integer and time interval. Currently the experiments management is done manually in debug panel, but the architecture is designed in such way that it is easily extended to obtain the experiments values from the start-up configuration loaded from the remote server on application start.

The key example of implemented experiments is the `no_account_ui` boolean experiment. This feature toggle manages whether the account tab and authorization flow should be hidden for user or not. This control method was required during the first beta testing release. The auth flow was not ready yet, thus the account page had no sense to be displayed. Such mechanism allowed to hide account components without using hard-coded conditional statements across the whole applications. This also provides easy to use means to enable the account UI for the development and testing purposes with no need to change the code itself.

#### 3.2.7. Deployment, Distribution and Beta Testing
